The following project was created for a data science course I took my sophomore year at Skidmore College. Over the course of the semester, students were expected to use the CRISP-DM process for predictive modeling on their own datasets. I chose to do my research on a 2014 dataset created by the non-profit Open Source Mental Illness which aims to bring awareness to the prevalance of mental health issues in the technology industry. 

Since mental health issues are so common in the tech industry and having a support system is linked with increased workplace satisfaction and general well-being, I decided to use participants' willingness to discuss mental health issues with their coworkers and supervisors as the target features to determine levels of transparency surrounding these issues in the workplace and variables which may increase this transparency. Higher levels of transparency in these issues are associated with decreased mental health issues, increased workplace satisfaction and productivity, and greater financial success. 

The findings of this research - although mostly inconclusive - can be found in the'Using Predictive Models to Determine American Tech Workers.pdf' file; a presentation of the findings is given in the 'Predictive Modeling for Mental Health.pdf'file. The data quality plan and report are given in respective files by those names and the original dataset is labeled as 'survey.csv.' Testing using both the willingness to discuss issues with coworkers and supervisors as target features are in those respective R files.

POINT OF CLARIFICATION: After looking over both the data quality plan and final report, I noticed an error. Trans women and non-binary classified individuals actually made up 1.07% of the refined dataset, not .011%. Since no data regarding the number of trans people in tech exists from 2014, this number can only be speculated (which is why only those who explicitly identified as trans were put in those categories and thus, no trans men were represented). In June 2016, data collected by the Williams Institute stated that 0.6% of the adult US population identified as trans. Since Open Source Mental Illness's survey was anonymous, trans individuals may have felt more comfortable disclosing that information in the survey. However, since no data is available on this topic from that time period: I will not know how accurate my data was on this topic.
